docs(bpmn): explain binding types for call activities, business rule tasks, and user tasks (#4132)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/components/best-practices/modeling/choosing-the-resource-binding-type.md

---
title: Choosing the resource binding type
tags:
  - BPMN
description: "Understand the differences between 'latest' and 'deployment' binding for linked resources"
---

> 

Reviewer: I like starting pages with a value proposition to answer "why should I care?"
```suggestion
Camunda offers version binding for linked processes, decisions, or forms so you can deploy new versions without disrupting live processes and prevent production outages.
```

Author: Ah, I just noticed that you meant this to be the first sentence of the page, not the `description` tag.

For the following elements in a BPMN process, you can choose the binding type for the linked target resource:

- [call activities](/docs/components/modeler/bpmn/call-activities/call-activities.md#defining-the-called-process)
- [business rule tasks](/docs/components/modeler/bpmn/business-rule-tasks/business-rule-tasks.md#defining-a-called-decision) (if the DMN decision implementation is used)
- [user tasks](/docs/components/modeler/bpmn/user-tasks/user-tasks.md#user-task-forms) (if a Camunda Form is linked)

The binding type determines the version of the target resource that will be used at runtime.
For example, in case of a call activity, it would be the version of the called process to be instantiated.

The following binding types are currently supported in Camunda 8:

> - **`latest`** will resolve to the **latest deployed version** of the target resource (at the point in time the process element is activated).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`latest`** will resolve to the **latest deployed version** of the target resource at the moment the process element is activated.
```

  Be aware that this can lead to unexpected behavior if you deploy a new version of the target resource without ensuring backwards compatibility with every deployed process that depends on it.
  Therefore, using `latest` might not be suited for production environments that require stability and a predictable behavior.

> - **`deployment`** will resolve to the particular version of the target resource that was **deployed together** with the currently running version of the process in the **same deployment**.

Reviewer: A user might wonder: "how do I deploy multiple resources in the same deployment"
Answer: Use a process application's deployment UI or use the Zeebe deployment API with multiple files (needs to be revised for technical accuracy)
 
Links to these docs pages would be helpful
https://docs.camunda.io/docs/apis-tools/zeebe-api/gateway-service/#deployresource-rpc
https://docs.camunda.io/docs/next/components/modeler/web-modeler/process-applications/

Author: Thanks, good suggestion! 👍🏻

| :----------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `latest`     | <p>Resolves to the **latest deployed version** of the target resource at the moment the process element is activated.</p><p><ul><li><p>This can lead to unexpected behavior if you deploy a new version of the target resource without ensuring backwards compatibility with every deployed process that depends on it.</p></li><li><p>Therefore, using `latest` might not be suited for production environments that require stability and a predictable behavior.</p></li></ul></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Author: Thanks, @korthout, for your review. I've finally opened a follow-up PR to address your comments: https://github.com/camunda/camunda-docs/pull/4177
